SOURCE URL: https://www.everettsd.org/academics
PAGE NAME: academics
==================================================
Academic Programs - Everett Public Schools
Skip To Main Content
Close Menu
Academic Programs
Everett Public Schools offers a wide range of academics and programs designed to challenge and inspire every learner. We are guided by the core values of our district and our role is to support the mission, vision and strategic plan.
We are particularly driven by the notion that all students will graduate, be prepared for college, career and life with 21st-century skills. We define those skills as critical thinking, collaboration, creativity, communication, citizenship, and growth mindset.
English Language Arts
Math
Science & Engineering
Social Studies
Spanish Language Arts
World Languages
Heath & Fitness
Visual and Performing Arts
Social Emotional Learning
Elementary (K - 5)
Middle/High (6-12)
Everett Public Schools uses National Geographic Reach for Reading instructional materials, developed by CENGAGE Learning®, to support K-5 teaching and learning.
Curriculum Alignment: The program aligns with English Language Arts Common Core State Standards (ELA CCSS) in:
Reading
Writing
Language
Speaking and Listening
Focus Areas:
Integration of 21st Century Skills
Collaboration for authentic engagement
Deeper learning strategies aimed at preparing students for success in college, careers, and civic life
Reach for Reading emphasizes high leverage best practice strategies. A robust digital platform with resources for teachers, students, and parents.
C.I.A. (Collect·Interpret·Apply), developed by Read Side by Side®, is a month-long unit for 3rd-5th grade students that focuses on text structure to help access complex literature and enhance comprehension, vocabulary, and written response skills.
Everett Public Schools uses SpringBoard materials by The College Board to support ELA Common Core Standards (Grades 6-12).
Focus on building student proficiency in reading, writing, speaking, listening, and collaboration.
Emphasizes engagement, deeper learning, and postsecondary success.
Supports 21st-century skills and aligns with AP English courses and SAT expectations.
LANGUAGE! Live is an additional resource for secondary literacy, aligning with ELA CCSS.
Covers Reading Foundations, Reading, Writing, Speaking, Listening, and Language.
Offers a blended learning model to boost student achievement and learning.
Based on research, with an overview available for further details.
Secondary ELA Sequence
Elementary (K-5)
Middle/High (6-12)
Students need mathematics to solve problems, reason logically, compute fluently, and understand their world. The Everett Public Schools Mathematics Department is committed to ensuring success for all K–12 students through engaging, high-quality instruction; equitable access to resources; effective use of tools and technology; and ongoing assessment that measures proficiency, guides instruction, and provides timely feedback for growth.
Curriculum
Our K–12 mathematics program builds essential skills through coherent learning progressions, fostering connections within mathematical concepts and between mathematics and the real world. Maintaining the rigor, coherence, and focus of the Common Core State Standards for Mathematics at every grade level and course is key to the strength of our program.
Illustrative Mathematics K-5  Common Core Standards
Curriculum
Illustrative Math Resources for:
Middle School 6-8  High School
Download PDF
Everett Public Schools offers a district wide science and engineering program that supports curriculum and activities for all grades and schools.
Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS):
Washington State has adopted the Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS) as the state's official science standards, also called the Washington State Science and Learning Standards (WSSLS).
NGSS were created by states for states.
They outline key scientific and engineering practices, concepts, and core ideas.
These standards ensure that all K-12 students learn what they need to succeed in college and future careers.
For more details, you can visit the NGSS website to learn about how the standards are communicated.
NGSS Website  WA State Science and Learning Standards
Elementary
Middle School
High School
College Options
Everett Public School elementary schools follow the state recommended outline for elementary school. Teachers can find Social Studies GLE's and suggested Grade Level Outlines by visiting the OSPI Social Studies website below.
OSPI Website
Students in middle school have the opportunity to learn about local, national, and world history and human and physical geography. Students read and write about history and experience interactive activities that help develop Social Studies Skills: critical reasoning, inquiry-based research, and deliberation.
In 6th Grade, students learn about Ancient and Medieval World History.
In 7th Grade, students learn about World Geography and Washington State History. Successfully completing Washington State History in middle school fulfills a high school graduation requirement.
Beginning with the 2006/07 school year, 7th grade students have the opportunity to fulfill a high school graduation requirement by successfully completing their Washington State History course. Fulfilling this requirement in 7th grade allows students more flexibility in their future high school class schedules. If a student does not successfully meet the objectives of the middle school Washington State History class, that student will still be able to fulfill the Washington State History graduation requirement by enrolling in the high school Washington State History class during their high school career.
In 8th Grade, students learn about United States History, Beginnings to Reconstruction.
Students in our high schools have the opportunity to learn about World, United State History, and United States Government as well as a wide variety of electives to extend their learning beyond the basic Social Studies curriculum.
By taking courses in World History, United States History, and United States Government, students are fulfilling their Social Studies graduation requirements. Taking at least one additional .5 credit is also required and will fulfill entrance requirements for Washington State public four-year universities and many private colleges and universities.
Students begin the required series of Social Studies courses with Modern World History, typically taken in 10th grade. Students then continue to United States History in 11th grade and United States Government in 12th Grade. Each of these required courses is also available as an Advanced Placement (AP) course.
For students who did not fulfill the requirement in Middle School, Washington State History is also offered.
Depending upon the high school, a wide variety of electives are offered for students who are interested in extending their social studies education beyond the basic requirements, including the following AP options: AP Human Geography, AP Microeconomics, AP Macroeconomics, AP Psychology, and AP Research Social Studies.
High School Students have several choices for earning college credit while taking high school courses. When pursuing college options in high school, students and their families should be aware that, depending on the program, additional expenses may be applied such as college tuition, college textbooks, and/or transportation.
Advanced Placement (AP)
Advanced Placement courses prepare students to take the Advanced Placement exam for that subject area. By successfully meeting standards on the AP exam, students may earn college credit. Social Studies Advanced Placement courses offered are:
For more information about Advanced Placement, students should visit the AP Central Website and see their high school counselor.
AP Central Website
College in High School
College in the High School courses allow students to earn college credit from local community colleges while taking courses at their own high school. Teachers of these courses must be qualified to become adjunct faculty at the local community college. Social Studies College in the High School courses offered are:
For more information, students should see their high school counselor.
Running Start
Students who qualify and enroll in Running Start may take college courses at local community colleges instead of attending high school courses. For more information, students should contact their high school counselor.
AP Human Geography
AP Macroeconomics
AP Microeconomics
AP Psychology
AP United States Government and Politics
AP United States History
AP World History
United States History
Washington State History
United States Government
Everett Public Schools’ Spanish Language Arts curriculum supports bilingual literacy and academic success for native Spanish speakers and dual-language learners.
Students build strong reading, writing, and communication skills in Spanish while deepening cultural connections and preparing for future bilingual opportunities.
Everett Public Schools’ World Languages curriculum helps students develop communication skills and cultural understanding to thrive in a global society.
We offer Spanish, French, German and Chinese at the high school level.
In the 2015-16 school year, Everett Public Schools began offering world language testing to students in grades 7-12 to provide an opportunity to earn high school credit by demonstrating fluency in reading, writing, speaking, and listening in a language other than English.
LEARN MORE
Physical Education
Sexual Health
Competency Credits
Everett Public Schools recognizes the connection between academic success and physical fitness among our children. Through community collaboration and partnerships, we will serve as a catalyst for change as we move toward reducing youth obesity and increasing the number of students graduating from high school empowered with strategies for staying fit for life!
OSPI - Health and PE Learning Standards
Senate Bill 5395 requires all public schools to provide comprehensive sexual health education, aligned with Health Education K-12 Learning Standards and legal provisions.. To find grade level sexual health curriculum click on the tabs below.
Parents or legal guardians can review the sexual health education curriculum by submitting a written request to the school district board, the school principal, or their designee. They can also opt-out their child from sexual health education by using the Parent/Guardian opt-out form. To access the form and to learn more about Sexual Health curriculum per grade level, click the button below.
LEARN MORE
High School PE Competency Credits
Students who cannot complete the state-required 1.5 PE credits due to academic commitments (Running Start, Sno-Isle Skills Center, AP courses, etc.) may apply for a PE Competency Credit.
Eligibility
Must complete PE 1 before applying.
Must currently participate in a coach-supervised sport.
Applications must be pre-approved by the school’s PE Competency Coordinator.
Coordinators
Cascade HS: Jacob Huizinga
Everett HS: Tara Tri
Jackson HS: David Hutt
Application Process
Meet with your school’s PE Competency Coordinator.
Complete the PE Competency Application form.
Fall deadline: 2nd Friday in September
Winter deadline: 1st Friday in December
Spring deadline: 2nd Friday in March
Submit the Competency Packet within 2 weeks of the season ending.
Fall season ends: 2nd Friday in November
Winter season ends: 2nd Friday in February
Spring season ends: 2nd Friday in May
Complete required community athletics forms, if applicable.
Retroactive PE credit is not allowed (special circumstances may be considered).
Contact your PE Competency Coordinator with questions.
Our arts programs follow Washington State K–12 Arts Learning Standards, giving students opportunities to create, perform, and express themselves while building important life skills.
Visual Arts
Elementary School: Hands-on lessons using the Art of Education curriculum; PTSA art docent programs; integration of SEL and STEM
Middle School: Art offered as an elective; students explore personal expression using the Davis curriculum Explorations in Art and Experience Art
High School: Courses range from drawing, painting, ceramics, photography, and graphic design; AP Studio Art options available; new curricula from Art of Education and Davis inspire creative voice and style
Showcasing Student Work: Annual Elementary, Middle, and High School Art Shows at the Community Resource Center
Performing Arts
Elementary School: General music classes that build skills and knowledge
Middle and High School: Band, orchestra, and choir with many performance opportunities throughout the year
Assessment: Teachers use the Washington Music Educators Association rubric to guide learning and growth.
LEARN MORE
Social and emotional learning (SEL) is a process through which adults and children learn to recognize and manage emotions, demonstrate care and concern for others, develop positive relationships, make good decisions and behave ethically, respectfully, and responsibly.
LEARN MORE
CONTACT INFORMATION
Academics Department
425-385-4050
3900 Broadway, Everett, WA 98201
Meet the Team
Early Learning
The Early Learning program fosters young children's cognitive, social, and emotional development through age-appropriate education. This includes ECEAP , Play & Learn , Developmental preschool, Transition to Kindergarten and other options.
LEARN MORE
Advanced Learning
Advanced Learning offers accelerated and enriched academic opportunities for students in grades K–12, including Learning Enrichment, Highly Capable programs in elementary school, and advanced course options in middle and high schools.
LEARN MORE
Multilingual Learner
The Multilingual Learner program provides structured language acquisition instruction to students whose native language is not English by helping them develop proficiency in English while also supporting their academic growth.
LEARN MORE
Career & Technical Education
The Career and Technical Education (CTE) program equips students with technical, academic, and 21st-century skills for success in the workplace and further education, offering opportunities to explore in-demand career pathways.
College & Career Readiness
The College & Career Readiness program prepares students with the skills and knowledge needed for post-secondary success, offering guidance in college applications, career exploration, and workforce readiness.
LEARN MORE
Special Education
Special Education provides tailored support and resources to help students with needs succeed academically and socially. It ensures an inclusive learning environment with individualized instruction to meet student's needs.
LEARN MORE
International Baccalaureate (IB)
The IB Diploma Programme is a rigorous two-year pre-university program that develops globally minded students with strong critical thinking, writing, and problem-solving skills.
LEARN MORE
Dual Language Program
The Dual Language Spanish Immersion program (K-5) provides an environment for students to develop a higher level of bilingualism and biliteracy skills in both English and Spanish.
LEARN MORE
Lighthouse Cooperative
This Lighthouse Elementary Cooperative program (K-5) blends the district curriculum with parent involvement through weekly volunteering and support for enrichment activities.
LEARN MORE
Port Gardner K-12
Port Gardner School is a parent partnership program that offers onsite classes with certificated teachers and provides resources, guidance, and support for home-based education.
LEARN MORE
High School Online Options
Port Gardner School is a parent partnership program that offers onsite classes with certificated teachers and provides resources, guidance, and support for home-based education.
LEARN MORE
Sequoia High School
Sequoia High School is an alternative school that offers a small, supportive environment and personalized education focused on choice, equity, and relationships.
LEARN MORE